---
title: Ubuntu Core configuration
table_of_contents: true
---

# Ubuntu Core configuration

Ubuntu Core supports a set of system-wide options that allow you to customise your
snap and core environment.

As with [Configuration in
snaps](https://snapcraft.io/docs/configuration-in-snaps), these options are
changed with the `snap set` and `snap get` commands, but with a target of
*system* instead of a specific snap:

```bash
$ snap set system <some.option>="some value"
$ snap get system <some.option>
```

Configuration options can be unset by either passing their names to the unset
command or by adding an exclamation mark (!) to the end of an option name:

```bash
$ snap unset system <some.option>
$ # or (from snapd 2.41+)
$ snap set system <some.option>!
```

Supported options:

- [system.disable-backlight-service](#disable-backlight)
- [journal.persistent](#journal-persistent)
- [pi-config](#heading--pi-config)
- [proxy.{http,https,ftp}](#heading--proxy)
- [refresh](#heading--refresh)
- [service.ssh.disable](#heading--ssh)
- [snapshots.automatic.retention](#heading--snapshots-automatic-retention)
- [store-certs](#heading--store-certs)
- [system.power-key-action](#heading--power-key-action)

<h2 id="heading--disable-backlight">system.disable-backlight-service</h2>

Setting this to true disables the system backlight service by masking
_systemd-backlight@.service_. Setting it to false removes the mask and
re-enables any system backlight:

```bash
$ snap set system system.disable-backlight-service=false
```

Available since snapd 2.45.

<h2 id="heading--journal-persistent">journal.persistent</h2>

Setting this to true enables persistent (non volatile) journaling in
`/var/log/journal`, via _journald_.

```bash
$ snap set system journal.persistent=true
```

Setting `journal.persistent` to false disables persistent journaling and
**removes** _/var/log/journal_ if it was created by snapd.

**Note:** With _core16_ it is necessary to restart the device manually for
changes to take effect.

Available since snapd 2.45.

<h2 id="heading--pi-config">pi-config</h2>

On a Raspberry Pi, the following options set corresponding values in the
_config.txt_ system configuration file:

  * pi-config.disable-overscan
  * pi-config.framebuffer-width
  * pi-config.framebuffer-height
  * pi-config.framebuffer-depth
  * pi-config.framebuffer-ignore_alpha
  * pi-config.overscan-left
  * pi-config.overscan-right
  * pi-config.overscan-top
  * pi-config.overscan-bottom
  * pi-config.overscan-scale
  * pi-config.display-rotate
  * pi-config.hdmi-group
  * pi-config.hdmi-mode
  * pi-config.hdmi-drive
  * pi-config.avoid-warnings
  * pi-config.gpu-mem-256
  * pi-config.gpu-mem-512
  * pi-config.gpu-mem

Further details on the above, see the [official Raspberry Pi
documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.org/documentation/configuration/config-txt/).

<h2 id="heading--proxy">proxy.{http,https,ftp}</h2>

These options may be set to change the proxies to be used by the system when
communicating with external sites that speak the respective protocols.

Available since snapd 2.28.

<h2 id="heading--refresh">refresh</h2>

There are four system-wide options that are used to manage how updates are
handed:

- **refresh.timer**: defines the refresh frequency and schedule
- **refresh.hold**: delays the next refresh until the defined time and date
- **refresh.metered**: pauses refresh updates when network connection is metered
- **refresh.retain**: sets how many revisions of a snap are stored on the system

See [Controlling updates](https://snapcraft.io/docs/keeping-snaps-up-to-date)
for further details on how the above options are used.

<h2 id="heading--ssh">service.ssh.disable</h2>

May be set to _true_ for disabling the SSH service at startup.

Available since snapd 2.22.

<h2 id='heading--snapshots-automatic-retention'>system snapshots.automatic.retention</h2>

[Automatic snapshot](https://snapcraft.io/docs/snapshots) retention time is
configured with the `snapshots.automatic.retention` system option. The default
value is 31 days, and the value needs to be greater than 24 hours:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=30h
```
To disable automatic snapshots, set the retention time to `no`:

```bash
$ snap set system snapshots.automatic.retention=no
```

> ⓘ Disabling automatic snapshots will *not* affect pre-existing, automatically
> generated snapshots, but only those generated by subsequent snap removals.

Automatic snapshots require snap version _2.39+_. 

<h2 id='heading--store-certs'>store-certs</h2>

A custom SSL certificate can be added to snapd'd trusted certificates pool for
the store communication with the `store-certs.<name>=<value>` system option.

To add a certificate, enter the following:

```bash
$ snap set system store-certs.cert1="$(cat /path/to/mycert)"
```

A certificate can be removed with _unset_:

```bash
$ snap unset system store-certs.cert1
```

Available since snapd 2.45

<h2 id='heading--power-key-action'>system.power-key-action</h2>

Defines the behaviour of the system when the power key is pressed.

May be set to one of:

* ignore
* poweroff
* reboot
* halt
* kexec
* suspend
* hibernate
* hybrid-sleep
* lock

Available since snapd 2.23.
